# Astro Party II

### Brief Summary:
This is a recreation of the game Astro Party. I am not using it for commercial purpose, so please don't sue me.

### Development Log: (MM-DD-YYYY: "LOG")
* #### Yuxiang Huang:
    *  (08-26-2022): Today I began the project by making a simple rectangular map and controls for the player ship, including rotatation and shooting.
    *  (08-27-2022): Today I started by adding the ammo restraint for the ships. Each ship has at most three ammos and reload one every two seconds. In addition, I added the animation for how many ammo each ship has. After that, I changed the camera to orthographic and resize everything. Then I added laser beam to the game, including the first sound effect of the game. Next, I worked on the UI by having three chained screens. Lastly, I struggled with a bot and finally got it to work in the end of the day. Throughout the day, I also fixed a variety of issues I discovered while testing the game."
    *  (08-28-2022): "Today I made the minimum viable product for the ship screen. The player is able to choose at most four ships, making them player or bot. Then, I fixed their spawning positions and make bot attack the closest ship.
    *  (08-29-2022): Today I started by creating an end screen, which includes a rematch button and a back to ship screen button. Then, as I was going to write the code for displaying the winning message, I realized that it would be better to implement the team system first. Thus, I spent the rest of the morning working on the team system and resolving various issues that come with it. Later in the day, I spent an hour giving players the option to choose their prefered controls. Lastly, I fixed an issue by making the team button only appearing when player is on and optimize the text for the team numbers.
    *  (08-30-2022): Today I spent almost all my time working on the score board and finally got it to work.
    *  (08-31-2022): Today I started with displaying the winning message for the team mode. Then I added the solo mode where each player win points by killing other ships instead of being the last one alive. Also, I added features like team ships move together in the score board and better pictures. In addition, I fix issues in the score board and rematch button.
    *  (09-01-2022): Today I started by making an option for friendly fire in team mode. Then, I started the pilot hunting mode by making a controllable pilot. In addition, I perfect the scoreboard, AI moving, and capped the velocity of ships and pilots in the game.
    *  (09-02-2022): Today I spent a lot of time and finish almost everything except the maps and powerups. I perfected the score system after adding the pilot and did the UI for the pilot vs ship mode. Then I wrote a universal script for the bot and the ship that includes everything they share, so when I add the powerup system I don't need to write the code twice for each powerup. I also spent a lot of time perfecting the AI and the score board. I realize I shouldn't update the AI agent destination every frame and maintained the function for the score board after scaling. Lastly, I play tested the game and fixed issues that I find.
    *  (09-03-2022): Today I started by making an option for fixed spawn position. Then, I worked on the map system and set the foundation for adding more maps easily. There are two maps as for now and I can turn them on and off. Lastly, I added the laser indicator, which can be attracted by other ships and allow them to shoot laser beam once.
    *  (09-04-2022): Today I started by adding more sound effects to the game. Then, I worked on UI for the info screen and the power up screen. For power ups, I am able to spawn one in the middle of the map every round and make ships drop it when they have it but didn't use it yet. Lastly, I added the starting power up option for each ship. 
    *  (09-05-2022): Today I started by adding the double tap dash control for the player ships. Then I added a Sound Effect Manager that handles all the sound effects and added the sound effect for the ship, pilot and the preparation stage. Lastly, I spent a lot of time working on the asteroid system that contains four kinds of asteroids. I encapsulating the power up indicator in the asteroid and finish the spawning mechanics.
    *  (09-06-2022): Today I started by perfecting the asteroid system. One feature I added is that the larger asteroid will break up into smaller ones after destroyed. I also added an option for the player to choose the number of asteroids and the movement of the asteroid. Then, I remake the ships in order to change the collider and add the jouster and side cannon for tomorrow. Lastly, I am half way done with scatter shot.
    *  (09-07-2022): Today I spent all my time working on the power ups. I finished the scatter shot, and also the triple shot and the freezer. I display them on the info screen as well as giving the players the option to include them in the game or not and use them as starting power up. As usual, I fixed bugs I find throughout the day.
    
    *  (09-10-2022): Today I started by fixing the bugs I found when I play tested the game with my friends. Then I realized that I can apply material with code and merged all the ship prefabs into a player ship and a bot ship. With that, I started to add a fifth ship to the game and worked extensively with the scripts.
    *  (09-11-2022): Today I started by also mergeing the pilots like the ships. Then I worked on the display by changing the font. Lastly, I resized the map to be five times larger and adding the camera shrinking and expanding feature depending on where the ships are.
    
    *  (09-15-2022): Today I reworked the damage system in such a way that the powerUps can just call the function in mutualShip script and really reduce the code in the powerUp scripts. Then, using this new damage system, I added a new powerUp shield to the game.
    *  (09-16-2022): Today I play tested with my friends and fixed issues we encountered, including the long existing problem of mutltiple bullet hitting one enemy causing mutiple effects, the y value of powerUp indicators, and the power drop system. Then, I added the triple powerUp option and reworked the freezing algorithm to allow freezing time to stack. Lastly, I added esc as the pause button.
